README.adoc, before:

The Eternity Engine
===================

Eternity is an advanced http://doomwiki.org/wiki/Doom[DOOM] source
port maintained by James ``Quasar'' Haley, descended from Simon
``fraggle'' Howard's SMMU. It has a whole host of advanced features
for editors and players alike, including:

* http://doomwiki.org/wiki/ACS[ACS], including many of ZDoom's
  enhancements

* http://eternity.youfailit.net/index.php?title=EDF[EDF], Eternity
  Definition File, a language to define and modify monsters,
  decorations, sounds, text strings, menus, terrain types, and other
  kinds of data.

* http://doomwiki.org/wiki/ENDOOM[ENDOOM] and animated startup screen
  support.

* High-resolution support (practically unlimited).

* Support for _Master Levels_ and _No Rest for the Living_, allowing
  to play them without command line options.

* Portals which can be used to create skyboxes and fake 3D
  architecture. Linked portal allow objects to pass through them, as
  well.

* http://www.libpng.org/pub/png/[PNG] support

* Aided with http://libsdl.org/[SDL 2], Eternity is very portable and
  runs on a large range of operating systems: Windows (confirmed as
  low as XP, and all the way through Windows 10), Linux, Mac
  OS X, FreeBSD, OpenBSD, and more.

* Heretic, Hexen, and Strife support in-progress.

For more on its features, check out the
http://eternity.youfailit.net/index.php?title=Main_Page[Eternity
Engine Wiki].

Eternity Engine is maintained using the Git version control system,
and the canonical source of the repository is available at
https://github.com/team-eternity/eternity[GitHub].

Compiling
---------
There are four ways available for building Eternity: CMake, Visual
Studio, Xcode files, and Homebrew, for Unix, Windows, and both
Mac OS X respectively.

Git submodule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The project contains the ADLMIDI submodule. You need to load it after you've just cloned Eternity, by using this command:

----
git submodule update --init
----

Building with CMake
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CMake should be capable of generating build files for all platforms,
but it is most commonly used only for Unix OSes and not
thoroughly tested outside of it.

. If you haven't already, extract the source *.zip file or clone the
Git repository, in the top-level directory you should see a
+CMakeLists.txt+ file. You should be in this directory.

. Create a new empty directory and change to it, eg: +mkdir build+
followed by +cd build+. You cannot do an in-tree build.

. Run CMake. Usually you will want to run +cmake ..+, but you might
want to change the generator with a special command, for example:
+
----
cmake .. -G "Unix Makefiles"
cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=C:\sdk\x64 -G "NMake Makefiles"
cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=MinSizRel -G "Visual Studio 15 2017 Win64"
----

. Run your build tool. On Unix, you probably want to just run +make+.

As an optional final step, you can create a binary installation
package with CPack. For Windows, it will collect all the needed
runtime libraries and bundle it with the Eternity engine. Some
examples:

----
cpack -G ZIP
cpack -G DEB
cpack -G RPM
cpack -G STGZ
----

Building with Xcode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You need Mac OS X 10.7 or more to run Eternity.

* Open Xcode and load macosx/EternityEngine.xcodeproj. This builds the main game
executable. Any dependencies should be automatically downloaded.

* If you want to build the full package, open 
macosx/launcher/EternityLaunch.xcodeproj. It depends on EternityEngine.xcodeproj
to generate the executable which gets bundled in the user-friendly app package.

* To actually make distributable app builds, don't use the master Git branch.
Instead go to the "release-mac" branch, updating it from master as necessary.
First you need to produce a release Eternity executable. Load
EternityEngine.xcodeproj and build an archive. Export it as a folder release and
copy the "eternity" executable into macosx/builds/ (create the "builds" 
subdirectory if missing). Now close EternityEngine.xcodeproj and open
EternityLaunch.xcodeproj. You'll need to replace my code signing with yours, or 
keep it unsigned if you're not enrolled in Apple's developer programme. Build
an archive and export it as a developer ID signed application (or unsigned).
You will then obtain a valid .app package.


Building with Homebrew (OS X Mavericks and up)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The benefit of Homebrew compilation is that you don't need to "install"
Eternity like a standard Mac application. However, this will require some
extra work. You will also need to run Eternity as you would in Unix.

These instructions are written with the assumption that the user has
already set up Homebrew and the required dependencies. Please note that as
of the latest Mavericks updates, GCC is no longer required. If you are
using an older cmake release folder, you will need to create a new one.

* You will need the following libraries:
+
 cmake
 sdl2
 sdl2_mixer
 sdl2_net
 libogg
 libvorbis
 flac
 libmpeg2
 libmodplug

* Follow the cmake instructions.
+
 cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
 make

Building with Visual Studio (2017 and up)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These instructions are written with the assumption that the user has
already set up Visual Studio.

. Acquire the following libraries:
+
 SDL-2.0.12
 SDL2_mixer-2.0.4
 SDL2_net-2.0.1

. Extract them to a folder of your choosing, eg. `C:\Libs`.

. Open `Eternity.sln` from the `vc2017` (or higher) folder.

. Select 'View -> Property Manager' (if it is not there you will need to enable it from Tools -> Customize -> Commands:
Menu bar -> View -> Add Command -> View -> Property Manager).

. If using Visual Studio 2019 then open `Release | Win32` or `Debug | Win32` and double click `Eternity`, then skip to the next step.
If you wish to build for 32-bit then open `Release | Win32` or `Debug | Win32` and double click `Microsoft.Cpp.Win32.user`.
If you wish to build for 64-bit then open `Release | x64` or `Debug | x64` and double click `Microsoft.Cpp.x64.user`.
Do this for both if you plan on building both.

. Under the 'User Macros' section, click 'Add Macro'.

. Enter `SDL2_0` for the name, and the directory you extracted SDL2.0 to as the value, eg. `C:\Libs\SDL2-2.0.12`.

. Tick 'Set this macro as an environment variable in the build environment' and click OK.

. Repeat the above 2 steps for `SDLMIXER2_0` (C:\Libs\SDL2_mixer-2.0.4) and `SDLNET2_0` (C:\Libs\SDL2_net-2.0.1).

. Click OK to close the property pages window.

. If using Visual Studio 2019 then right click `Eternity` and select 'Save', then skip to the next step.
Otherwise right click `Microsoft.Cpp.Win32.user`, or `Microsoft.Cpp.x64.user`, or both, and select 'Save'.

. Select whether or not you want to compile using 'Debug' or 'Release' config.

. Select 'Build -> Build Solution' and Eternity will begin compilation. If successful, you will find it in `vc201x\Debug` or `vc201x\Release`.

. Place the dependencies required (the dlls present in the 3 arch-appropriate SDL lib folders) in this folder,
as well as the folder `base\` from the repository root.

Commit message:

Sorta fix Eternity.props issues

README.adoc, after:

The Eternity Engine
===================

Eternity is an advanced http://doomwiki.org/wiki/Doom[DOOM] source
port maintained by James ``Quasar'' Haley, descended from Simon
``fraggle'' Howard's SMMU. It has a whole host of advanced features
for editors and players alike, including:

* http://doomwiki.org/wiki/ACS[ACS], including many of ZDoom's
  enhancements

* http://eternity.youfailit.net/index.php?title=EDF[EDF], Eternity
  Definition File, a language to define and modify monsters,
  decorations, sounds, text strings, menus, terrain types, and other
  kinds of data.

* http://doomwiki.org/wiki/ENDOOM[ENDOOM] and animated startup screen
  support.

* High-resolution support (practically unlimited).

* Support for _Master Levels_ and _No Rest for the Living_, allowing
  to play them without command line options.

* Portals which can be used to create skyboxes and fake 3D
  architecture. Linked portal allow objects to pass through them, as
  well.

* http://www.libpng.org/pub/png/[PNG] support

* Aided with http://libsdl.org/[SDL 2], Eternity is very portable and
  runs on a large range of operating systems: Windows (confirmed as
  low as XP, and all the way through Windows 10), Linux, Mac
  OS X, FreeBSD, OpenBSD, and more.

* Heretic, Hexen, and Strife support in-progress.

For more on its features, check out the
http://eternity.youfailit.net/index.php?title=Main_Page[Eternity
Engine Wiki].

Eternity Engine is maintained using the Git version control system,
and the canonical source of the repository is available at
https://github.com/team-eternity/eternity[GitHub].

Compiling
---------
There are four ways available for building Eternity: CMake, Visual
Studio, Xcode files, and Homebrew, for Unix, Windows, and both
Mac OS X respectively.

Git submodule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The project contains the ADLMIDI submodule. You need to load it after you've just cloned Eternity, by using this command:

----
git submodule update --init
----

Building with CMake
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CMake should be capable of generating build files for all platforms,
but it is most commonly used only for Unix OSes and not
thoroughly tested outside of it.

. If you haven't already, extract the source *.zip file or clone the
Git repository, in the top-level directory you should see a
+CMakeLists.txt+ file. You should be in this directory.

. Create a new empty directory and change to it, eg: +mkdir build+
followed by +cd build+. You cannot do an in-tree build.

. Run CMake. Usually you will want to run +cmake ..+, but you might
want to change the generator with a special command, for example:
+
----
cmake .. -G "Unix Makefiles"
cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=C:\sdk\x64 -G "NMake Makefiles"
cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=MinSizRel -G "Visual Studio 15 2017 Win64"
----

. Run your build tool. On Unix, you probably want to just run +make+.

As an optional final step, you can create a binary installation
package with CPack. For Windows, it will collect all the needed
runtime libraries and bundle it with the Eternity engine. Some
examples:

----
cpack -G ZIP
cpack -G DEB
cpack -G RPM
cpack -G STGZ
----

Building with Xcode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You need Mac OS X 10.7 or more to run Eternity.

* Open Xcode and load macosx/EternityEngine.xcodeproj. This builds the main game
executable. Any dependencies should be automatically downloaded.

* If you want to build the full package, open 
macosx/launcher/EternityLaunch.xcodeproj. It depends on EternityEngine.xcodeproj
to generate the executable which gets bundled in the user-friendly app package.

* To actually make distributable app builds, don't use the master Git branch.
Instead go to the "release-mac" branch, updating it from master as necessary.
First you need to produce a release Eternity executable. Load
EternityEngine.xcodeproj and build an archive. Export it as a folder release and
copy the "eternity" executable into macosx/builds/ (create the "builds" 
subdirectory if missing). Now close EternityEngine.xcodeproj and open
EternityLaunch.xcodeproj. You'll need to replace my code signing with yours, or 
keep it unsigned if you're not enrolled in Apple's developer programme. Build
an archive and export it as a developer ID signed application (or unsigned).
You will then obtain a valid .app package.


Building with Homebrew (OS X Mavericks and up)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The benefit of Homebrew compilation is that you don't need to "install"
Eternity like a standard Mac application. However, this will require some
extra work. You will also need to run Eternity as you would in Unix.

These instructions are written with the assumption that the user has
already set up Homebrew and the required dependencies. Please note that as
of the latest Mavericks updates, GCC is no longer required. If you are
using an older cmake release folder, you will need to create a new one.

* You will need the following libraries:
+
 cmake
 sdl2
 sdl2_mixer
 sdl2_net
 libogg
 libvorbis
 flac
 libmpeg2
 libmodplug

* Follow the cmake instructions.
+
 cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
 make

Building with Visual Studio (2017 and up)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These instructions are written with the assumption that the user has
already set up Visual Studio.

. Acquire the following libraries:
+
 SDL-2.0.12
 SDL2_mixer-2.0.4
 SDL2_net-2.0.1

. Extract them to a folder of your choosing, eg. `C:\Libs`.

. Open `Eternity.sln` from the `vc2017` (or higher) folder.

. Select 'View -> Property Manager' (if it is not there you will need to enable it from Tools -> Customize -> Commands:
Menu bar -> View -> Add Command -> View -> Property Manager).

. If using Visual Studio 2019 then copy "EternityTemplate.props" in the "vc2019" folder to the same folder, and rename it to "Eternity.props". After doing this you'll need to reload the Eternity solution if it's already open.

. If using Visual Studio 2019 then open `Release | Win32` or `Debug | Win32` and double click `Eternity`, then skip to the next step.
If you wish to build for 32-bit then open `Release | Win32` or `Debug | Win32` and double click `Microsoft.Cpp.Win32.user`.
If you wish to build for 64-bit then open `Release | x64` or `Debug | x64` and double click `Microsoft.Cpp.x64.user`.
Do this for both if you plan on building both.

. Under the 'User Macros' section, click 'Add Macro'.

. Enter `SDL2_0` for the name, and the directory you extracted SDL2.0 to as the value, eg. `C:\Libs\SDL2-2.0.12`.

. Tick 'Set this macro as an environment variable in the build environment' and click OK.

. Repeat the above 2 steps for `SDLMIXER2_0` (C:\Libs\SDL2_mixer-2.0.4) and `SDLNET2_0` (C:\Libs\SDL2_net-2.0.1).

. Click OK to close the property pages window.

. If using Visual Studio 2019 then right click `Eternity` and select 'Save', then skip to the next step.
Otherwise right click `Microsoft.Cpp.Win32.user`, or `Microsoft.Cpp.x64.user`, or both, and select 'Save'.

. Select whether or not you want to compile using 'Debug' or 'Release' config.

. Select 'Build -> Build Solution' and Eternity will begin compilation. If successful, you will find it in `vc201x\Debug` or `vc201x\Release`.

. Place the dependencies required (the dlls present in the 3 arch-appropriate SDL lib folders) in this folder,
as well as the folder `base\` from the repository root.
